Blog post about VMs with Istio (#769)
kubevirt/kubevirt.github.io: _posts/2021-08-13-Virtual-machines-in-Istio-service-mesh.md

---
layout: post
author: Radim Hrazdil
title: Running virtual machines in Istio service mesh
description: This blog post demonstrates running virtual machines in Istio service mesh.
navbar_active: Blogs
pub-date: August 13
pub-year: 2021
category: news

> tags: [kubevirt, istio, virtual machine, VM, service mesh, mesh]

Author: That's pretty much what I did with the keywords, except for the istio, service mesh, mesh. Those are my invention.
I'm not completely sure what's the point of the tags, it doesn't seemt o be used to group articles by them and whether it's used by serach engine I have no idea.

> tags: [kubevirt, istio, virtual machine, VM, service mesh, mesh]

Reviewer: I'll leave this possible action point to someone that understands how we are using tags in the blog posts.

comments: true
---

## Introduction

This blog post demonstrates running virtual machines in [Istio](https://istio.io/) service mesh. 

Istio service mesh allows to monitor, visualize, and manage traffic between pods and external services by

> injecting a proxy container, a so called sidecar, which forwards traffic that goes in and out of a pod/virtual machine.

Author: Done

> This allows the sidecar to not only collect metadata about the proxied traffic but also actively interfere with it if so configured. 

Author: Please, see if the current version is better

## Prerequisites

- KubeVirt `v0.43.0`
- CRI-O `v1.19.0`

## Limitations

Istio is only supported with masquerade network binding and pod network over IPv4.

## Demo

This section covers deployment of a local cluster with Istio service mesh, KubeVirt installation and creation of an Istio-enabled virtual machine.
Finally, Kiali dashboard is used to examine both inbound and outbound traffic of the created virtual machine.

### Run k8s cluster

In this blog post, we are going to use [kubevirtci](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirtci) as our Kubernetes ephemeral cluster provider.

Follow these steps to deploy a local cluster with pre-installed Istio service mesh: 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirtci
cd kubevirtci
# Pin to version used in this blog post in case
# k8s-1.21 provider version disappears in the future
git reset 656b60bc114d592b77b5a25b42dbec2801f9b882 --hard
export KUBEVIRT_PROVIDER=k8s-1.21
export KUBEVIRT_DEPLOY_ISTIO=true
export KUBEVIRT_WITH_CNAO=true
make cluster-up
export KUBECONFIG=$(./cluster-up/kubeconfig.sh)
```

> Istio is configured to install with CNI plugin in our ephemeral k8s cluster, which allows running the sidecar without NET_ADMIN and NET_RAW capabilities.

Author: > I'm assuming this CNI does whatever it was the sidecar did that required those capabilities, but I honestly find this off-putting.

Correct, I'll remove this

> If you want to see exact Istio configuration, follow [this link](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirtci/blob/2108081530-91f55e3/cluster-provision/k8s/1.21/istio.sh).

Author: Done

### Install Kubevirt

Following KubeVirt [user guide](https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/operations/installation/#installing-kubevirt-on-kubernetes) to install released version `v0.43.0`:

```bash
export RELEASE=v0.43.0
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/releases/download/${RELEASE}/kubevirt-operator.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/releases/download/${RELEASE}/kubevirt-cr.yaml
kubectl -n kubevirt wait kv kubevirt --for condition=Available
```

### Install Istio addons

While the ephemeral kubevirtci installs core Istio components, addons like Kiali dashboard are not installed by default.
Download istio manifests and client binary by running the following command:
```bash
curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | ISTIO_VERSION=1.10.0 sh -
```
and export path to the istioctl binary by following the output of the above command.

Finally, deploy kiali, jaeger and prometheus addons:
```bash
kubectl create -f istio-1.10.0/samples/addons/kiali.yaml
kubectl create -f istio-1.10.0/samples/addons/jaeger.yaml

> kubectl create -f istio-1.10.0/samples/addons/prometheus.yaml

Author: I think it looks better, done

```

**Note:** If there are errors when installing the addons, try running the command again. There may be timing issues which will be resolved when the command is run again.

### Prepare target namespace

Before creating virtual machines, the target namespace needs to be configured for the Istio sidecar to be injected and working properly.
This involves adding a label and creating a NetworkAttachmentDefinition in the target namespace.

#### Istio sidecar injection

Istio supports two ways of [injecting](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/) a sidecar to a pod - automatic and manual.

> Enable automatic sidecar injection by adding `istio-injection=enabled` label to target namespace:

Author: Thanks, done

```bash
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
```

#### Network attachment definiton

> 

Author: Removed

> Since our ephemeral k8s cluster has multus installed, there needs to be NetworkAttachmentDefinition called `istio-cni` created in each namespace where Istio sidecar containers are to be used:

Author: Done

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: istio-cni
EOF
```

> The NetworkAttachmentDefinition spec is empty, as the only purpose of it is to invoke the istio-cni binary, which handles configuration of the in-pod traffic routing.

Author: Done

### Topology

> To demonstrate monitoring and tracing capabilities, we will create two VMIs within Istio service mesh: istio-vmi and cirros-vmi.
> `istio-vmi` repeatedly requests external HTTP service kubevirt.io, and serves a simple HTTP server on port 8080.
> `Cirros-vmi` repeatedly request the HTTP service running on the `istio-vmi` VMI. With this topology setup, both inbound and outbound
> traffic metrics can be observed in Kiali dashboard for `istio-vmi`.

Reviewer: This reads well enough, but I think it would be better as (not sure the suggestion below can be easily understood; I propose to just make the 2 last paragraphs entries of a list):

```suggestion
To demonstrate monitoring and tracing capabilities, we will create two VMIs within Istio service mesh: 
- `istio-vmi` repeatedly requests external HTTP service kubevirt.io, and serves a simple HTTP server on port 8080.
- `Cirros-vmi` repeatedly request the HTTP service running on the `istio-vmi` VMI. With this topology setup, both inbound and outbound traffic metrics can be observed in Kiali dashboard for `istio-vmi`.
```

Author: Done

### Create VMI resources

> To create an Istio aware virtual machine the `sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"` annotation needs to be specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Istio aware virtual machine **must be** annotated with `sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"`.
```

Author: Done

    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 1024M
  networks:
    - name: default
      pod: {}
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
    - name: containerdisk
      containerDisk:
        image: kubevirt/fedora-cloud-container-disk-demo:devel
    - cloudInitNoCloud:
        userData: |
          #cloud-config
          password: fedora
          chpasswd: { expire: False }
          runcmd:
          - dnf install -y screen nc
          - while true ; do sh -c "nc -lp 8080 -c  \"echo -e 'HTTP/1.1 200 OK\n\nHello'\" " ; done &
          - while true ; do curl kubevirt.io >out 2>/dev/null ; sleep 1 ; done &
      name: cloudinitdisk
EOF
```
The cloud init section of the VMI runs two loops requesting `kubevirt.io` website every second to generate outbound traffic (from the VMI) and serving simple HTTP server on port `8080`, which will be used for monitoring of inbound traffic (to the VMI).

After creating the VMI, similar output to the following snippet should be displayed when listing pods:
```bash
kubectl get pods
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
virt-launcher-istio-vmi-XYZ      3/3     Running   0          25s
```

> Notice the virt-launcher pod having 3/3 containers. The extra container is the istio proxy.

Reviewer: I somehow find the sentence to be off.. 

What do you think about:

"After creating the VMI, the corresponding virt-launcher pod should have 3 ready containers, as shown in the snippet below:"  ?

Author: I like your suggestion, done

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl create -f -
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  annotations:
    sidecar.istio.io/inject: "true"
  name: cirros-vmi
  labels:
    app: cirros-vmi
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      interfaces:
        - name: default
          masquerade: {}
      disks:
        - disk:
            bus: virtio
          name: containerdisk
        - disk:
            bus: virtio
          name: cloudinitdisk
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 128M
  networks:
    - name: default
      pod: {}
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
    - name: containerdisk
      containerDisk:
        image: kubevirt/cirros-container-disk-demo:devel
    - name: cloudinitdisk
      cloudInitNoCloud:
        userData: |
          #!/bin/sh
          while true ; do curl istio-vmi-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:8080 ; sleep 1 ; done
EOF
```

### Monitor traffic in Kiali dashboard

With both VMIs up and running, we can open the Kiali dashboard and observe the traffic metrics.
Run the following command, to access Kiali dashboard:
```bash
istioctl dashboard kiali
```

> **Note:** it may take a few moments for the VMs to be fully booted up and the traffic picked up in Kiali dashboard.

Reviewer: While I'm perfectly fine with this note, you could instead show the command for the VMI to be ready (or have a readiness probe on your VMI spec :) ). 

Either would be, imho, more complete - but also more complex.

Author: Thanks for the suggesting, that's neat.
Added the readiness probe and reoredred the text a bit - creating all VMIs first and then waiting and checking that all is good.

Navigate to Inbound Metrics tab to see metrics charts of inbound traffic.

<br>
<div class="my-gallery" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/ImageGallery">
  <figure
    itemprop="associatedMedia"
    itemscope
    itemtype="http://schema.org/ImageObject"
  >
    <a
      href="/assets/2021-08-13-Virtual-machines-in-Istio-service-mesh/istio-blog-vmi-istio-inbound-traffic.png"
      itemprop="contentUrl"
      data-size="800x530"
    >
      <img
        src="/assets/2021-08-13-Virtual-machines-in-Istio-service-mesh/istio-blog-vmi-istio-inbound-traffic.png"
        itemprop="thumbnail"
        width="100%"
        alt="Inbound traffic metrics"
      />
    </a>
    <figcaption itemprop="Inbound traffic metrics for `istio-vmi`"></figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

In Request volume chart we can see that number of requests stabilizes at around `1 ops`, which matches our loop sending one reqest per second. Request throughput chart reveals that the requests consume around `4 kbit/s` of bandwidth.
Remaining two charts provide information about Request duration and size.

The same metrics are collected for outbound traffic as well, which can be seen in Outbound Metrics tab.

> 

Reviewer: nit: extra empty line (iiuc).

Author: Removed

## Cluster teardown

Run the following command to deprovision the ephemeral cluster:

```bash
make cluster-down
```

## Conclusion

KubeVirt introduced support for Istio, allowing virtual machines to be part of a service mesh.

> This blog post covered running KubeVirt virtual machine in Istio service mesh using an ephemeral kubevirtci cluster. Kiali dashboard was used to observe inbound and outbound traffic of a virtual machine.

Reviewer: I really like the conclusion.

For example, the sidecar may inject faulty HTTP responses (or delay them), load balance traffic between different versions of an application, or mirror traffic for testing/debugging purposes.
Visit [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/) to learn about all its features.

## Prerequisites

- KubeVirt `v0.43.0`
- CRI-O `v1.19.0`

## Limitations

Istio is only supported with masquerade network binding and pod network over IPv4.

## Demo

This section covers deployment of a local cluster with Istio service mesh, KubeVirt installation and creation of an Istio-enabled virtual machine.
Finally, Kiali dashboard is used to examine both inbound and outbound traffic of the created virtual machine.

### Run k8s cluster

In this blog post, we are going to use [kubevirtci](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirtci) as our Kubernetes ephemeral cluster provider.

Follow these steps to deploy a local cluster with pre-installed Istio service mesh: 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirtci
cd kubevirtci
# Pin to version used in this blog post in case
# k8s-1.21 provider version disappears in the future

> git reset 656b60bc114d592b77b5a25b42dbec2801f9b882 --hard

Reviewer: This is not working for me. 

And I have to ask: why hard reset vs checkout ?

Author: I followed [this post](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt.github.io/blob/master/_posts/2020-10-21-Multiple-Network-Attachments-with-bridge-CNI.markdown#demo-environment-setup) which used reset, but you're right, checkout tag makes more sense.

Fixed the tag

  labels:
    app: cirros-vmi
spec:
  domain:
    devices:
      interfaces:
        - name: default
          masquerade: {}
      disks:
        - disk:
            bus: virtio
          name: containerdisk
        - disk:
            bus: virtio
          name: cloudinitdisk
    resources:
      requests:
        memory: 128M
  networks:
    - name: default
      pod: {}
  terminationGracePeriodSeconds: 0
  volumes:
    - name: containerdisk
      containerDisk:
        image: kubevirt/cirros-container-disk-demo:devel
    - name: cloudinitdisk
      cloudInitNoCloud:
        userData: |
          #!/bin/sh
          while true ; do curl istio-vmi-svc.default.svc.cluster.local:8080 ; sleep 1 ; done
EOF
```

Wait for the `istio-vmi` to be ready:
```bash
kubectl wait --for=condition=ready --timeout=150s pod -l app=istio-vmi
```

After creating the VMIs, the corresponding virt-launcher pods should have 3 ready containers, as shown in the snippet below:
```bash
kubectl get pods
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
virt-launcher-istio-vmi-XYZ      3/3     Running   0          4m13s
virt-launcher-cirros-vmi-XYZ     3/3     Running   0          2m21s
```

> `Istioctl proxy-status` should report that the sidecar proxies running inside the virt-launcher pods have synced with Istio control plane:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Istioctl proxy-status` should report the sidecar proxies running inside the virt-launcher pods have synced with Istio control plane:
```

nit: I think the `that` is redundant.

---
layout: post
author: Radim Hrazdil
title: Running virtual machines in Istio service mesh
description: This blog post demonstrates running virtual machines in Istio service mesh.
navbar_active: Blogs
pub-date: August 23
pub-year: 2021
category: news
tags: [kubevirt, istio, virtual machine, VM, service mesh, mesh]
comments: true
---

## Introduction

This blog post demonstrates running virtual machines in [Istio](https://istio.io/) service mesh. 

Istio service mesh allows to monitor, visualize, and manage traffic between pods and external services by
injecting a proxy container - a sidecar - which forwards inbound and outbound traffic of a pod/virtual machine.

> This allows the sidecar to collect metadata about the proxied traffic and also actively interfere with it.

Reviewer 2: The following line (which I cannot comment on for some reason) mentions testing/debugging features by it misses one of the main ones - ability to perform traffic shaping, model the allowed communication graph

Reviewer: I had "put" that in the "collect metada about the proxied traffic" meta-bucket. Definitely deserves a shout-out.

Author: @phoracek would you please take a look if this formulation is better in tha [last commit](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt.github.io/pull/769/commits/636e35d10d02aff62209310e9e1fa7c06cb4ddb1)?

Reviewer 2: Looks good, thanks

Visit [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/) to learn about all its features.

## Prerequisites

- KubeVirt `v0.43.0`
- CRI-O `v1.19.0`

## Limitations

Istio is only supported with masquerade network binding and pod network over IPv4.

## Demo

This section covers deployment of a local cluster with Istio service mesh, KubeVirt installation and creation of an Istio-enabled virtual machine.
Finally, Kiali dashboard is used to examine both inbound and outbound traffic of the created virtual machine.

### Run k8s cluster

In this blog post, we are going to use [kubevirtci](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirtci) as our Kubernetes ephemeral cluster provider.

Follow these steps to deploy a local cluster with pre-installed Istio service mesh: 

```bash
git clone https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirtci
cd kubevirtci
export KUBEVIRTCI_TAG=2108222252-0007793
# Pin to version used in this blog post in case
# k8s-1.21 provider version disappears in the future
git checkout $KUBEVIRTCI_TAG
export KUBEVIRT_NUM_NODES=2
export KUBEVIRT_PROVIDER=k8s-1.21
export KUBEVIRT_DEPLOY_ISTIO=true

> export KUBEVIRT_WITH_CNAO=true

Reviewer 2: CNAO is needed for Multus? Would it be worth mentioning it in the list of prerequisites? In case somebody tries this on their own cluster. And maybe mentioning Istio there too.

The idea being - prerequisites mention all the needed components to run it anywhere, but this section helps you set it up in a controlled environment

Reviewer: > CNAO is needed for Multus? Would it be worth mentioning it in the list of prerequisites? In case somebody tries this on their own cluster. And maybe mentioning Istio there too.
> 
> The idea being - prerequisites mention all the needed components to run it anywhere, but this section helps you set it up in a controlled environment

I don't think CNAO is needed. It is just a convenient way on kubevirtci to deploy it. Adding it to the requirements feels like lying, imo.

This might actually raise the question if we want to have CNAO here vs install multus as per [their documentation](https://github.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/multus-cni/blob/master/docs/quickstart.md#installation).

You could even just add:
```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/k8snetworkplumbingwg/multus-cni/master/images/multus-daemonset.yml
```

Author: It's not needed, I used it to show the more complicated setup, that involves creating a NAD.

> EDIT: do we need any other cni plugin shipped via cnao ?... I might have spoken too soon.

no we don't, I simply used cnao to have multus for the reson above.

If having multus feels out of focus, we can take it out of the picture along with cnao.
The linked [install script](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirtci/blob/2108081530-91f55e3/cluster-provision/k8s/1.21/istio.sh) for Istio would still provide complete information about Istio configuration.

We may also keep the Network attachment definition section just to informing that `with multus, this CNI needs to be created...`

Reviewer 2: I'm slightly leaning towards your option to mention NAD but don't make it a part of the demo. Just to keep it slim.

Reviewer: I am actually against that. Keeping the steps required for secondary networks is important, imo.

You might want to provide a separate section for it though, so readers understand better that this is only required for secondary networks.

As a side note: I like how it currently is.

Reviewer 2: I don't insist on it being changed neither. Let's keep it as is then

make cluster-up
export KUBECONFIG=$(./cluster-up/kubeconfig.sh)
```

For details about Istio configuration, see Istio kubevirtci [install script](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirtci/blob/2108081530-91f55e3/cluster-provision/k8s/1.21/istio.sh).

### Install Kubevirt

Following KubeVirt [user guide](https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/operations/installation/#installing-kubevirt-on-kubernetes) to install released version `v0.43.0`:

```bash
export RELEASE=v0.43.0
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/releases/download/${RELEASE}/kubevirt-operator.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/releases/download/${RELEASE}/kubevirt-cr.yaml
kubectl -n kubevirt wait kv kubevirt --timeout=180s --for condition=Available
```

> ### Install Istio addons

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should have one for Multus too? Again, I'm not sure if it would be better, just spitting thoughts...

Author: I think, with regards to the above [discussion](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt.github.io/pull/769#discussion_r693867540), this is not needed?

While the ephemeral kubevirtci installs core Istio components, addons like Kiali dashboard are not installed by default.

> Download istio manifests and client binary by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: Istio with capital I? So it is consistent in the whole article

Author: Fixed

virt-launcher-istio-vmi-99t8t.default                  SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       istiod-7d96484d6b-nk4cd     1.10.0
```

### Monitor traffic in Kiali dashboard

With both VMIs up and running, we can open the Kiali dashboard and observe the traffic metrics.
Run the following command, to access Kiali dashboard:
```bash
istioctl dashboard kiali
```

#### Topology graph

Let's start by navigating to the topology graph by clicking the Graph menu item.

<br>
<div class="my-gallery" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/ImageGallery">
  <figure
    itemprop="associatedMedia"
    itemscope
    itemtype="http://schema.org/ImageObject"
  >
    <a
      href="/assets/2021-08-13-Virtual-machines-in-Istio-service-mesh/topology-graph.png"
      itemprop="contentUrl"
      data-size="800x530"
    >
      <img
        src="/assets/2021-08-13-Virtual-machines-in-Istio-service-mesh/topology-graph.png"
        itemprop="thumbnail"
        width="100%"
        alt="Topology graph"
      />
    </a>
    <figcaption itemprop="Topology graph of deployed VMIs showing the traffic flows"></figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

In the topology graph, we can observe the following traffic flows:

> - requests from `cirros-vmi` to `istio-vmi` via `istio-vmi-svc`service,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- requests from `cirros-vmi` to `istio-vmi` via `istio-vmi-svc` service,
```

Author: Thanks! Fixed

  <figure
    itemprop="associatedMedia"
    itemscope
    itemtype="http://schema.org/ImageObject"
  >
    <a
      href="/assets/2021-08-13-Virtual-machines-in-Istio-service-mesh/istio-blog-vmi-istio-inbound-traffic.png"
      itemprop="contentUrl"
      data-size="800x530"
    >
      <img
        src="/assets/2021-08-13-Virtual-machines-in-Istio-service-mesh/istio-blog-vmi-istio-inbound-traffic.png"
        itemprop="thumbnail"
        width="100%"
        alt="Inbound traffic metrics"
      />
    </a>
    <figcaption itemprop="Inbound traffic metrics for `istio-vmi`"></figcaption>
  </figure>
</div>

In Request volume chart we can see that number of requests stabilizes at around `1 ops`, which matches our loop sending one reqest per second. Request throughput chart reveals that the requests consume around `4 kbit/s` of bandwidth.
Remaining two charts provide information about Request duration and size.

The same metrics are collected for outbound traffic as well, which can be seen in Outbound Metrics tab.

## Cluster teardown

Run the following command to deprovision the ephemeral cluster:

```bash
make cluster-down
```

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: Should we link to the user-guide?

Author: Linked

injecting a proxy container - a sidecar - which forwards inbound and outbound traffic of a pod/virtual machine.
This allows the sidecar to collect metadata about the proxied traffic and also actively interfere with it.
The main features of Istio are traffic shifting (migrating traffic from an old to new version of a service), dynamic request routing, fault injection or traffic mirroring for testing/debugging purposes, and more.
Visit [Istio documentation](https://istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/) to learn about all its features.
Istio featureset may be further extended by installing addons. Kiali, for example, is a UI dashboard that provides traffic information
of all microservices in a mesh, capable of composing communication graph between all microservices. 

## Prerequisites

- KubeVirt `v0.43.0`
- CRI-O `v1.19.0`

## Limitations

Istio is only supported with masquerade network binding and pod network over IPv4.

## Demo

This section covers deployment of a local cluster with Istio service mesh, KubeVirt installation and creation of an Istio-enabled virtual machine.
Finally, Kiali dashboard is used to examine both inbound and outbound traffic of the created virtual machine.

> ### Run k8s cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Run Kubernetes cluster
```

kubectl apply -f "https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/releases/download/${RELEASE}/kubevirt-cr.yaml"
kubectl -n kubevirt wait kv kubevirt --timeout=180s --for condition=Available
```

### Install Istio addons

While the ephemeral kubevirtci installs core Istio components, addons like Kiali dashboard are not installed by default.
Download Istio manifests and client binary by running the following command:
```bash
export ISTIO_VERSION=1.10.0
curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | sh -
```
and export path to the istioctl binary by following the output of the above command.

Finally, deploy kiali, jaeger and prometheus addons:
```bash
kubectl create -f istio-${ISTIO_VERSION}/samples/addons/kiali.yaml
kubectl create -f istio-${ISTIO_VERSION}/samples/addons/jaeger.yaml
kubectl create -f istio-${ISTIO_VERSION}/samples/addons/prometheus.yaml
```

**Note:** If there are errors when installing the addons, try running the command again. There may be timing issues which will be resolved when the command is run again.

### Prepare target namespace

Before creating virtual machines, the target namespace needs to be configured for the Istio sidecar to be injected and working properly.

> This involves adding a label and creating a NetworkAttachmentDefinition in the target namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This involves adding a label and creating a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` in the target namespace.
```

#### Istio sidecar injection

Istio supports [two ways of injecting](https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/additional-setup/sidecar-injection/) a sidecar to a pod - automatic and manual. For simplicity, we will only consider automatic sidecar injection in this demo, which is enabled by adding `istio-injection=enabled` label to target namespace:

```bash
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection=enabled
```

#### Network attachment definiton

> When multus is installed in k8s cluster, a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` called `istio-cni` **must** be created in **each** namespace where Istio sidecar containers are to be used:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When Multus is installed in k8s cluster, a `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` called `istio-cni` **must** be created in **each** namespace where Istio sidecar containers are to be used:
```

This blog post demonstrates running virtual machines in [Istio](https://istio.io/) service mesh. 

Istio service mesh allows to monitor, visualize, and manage traffic between pods and external services by
injecting a proxy container - a sidecar - which forwards inbound and outbound traffic of a pod/virtual machine.
This allows the sidecar to collect metadata about the proxied traffic and also actively interfere with it.

> For example, the sidecar may inject faulty HTTP responses or delay them, load balance traffic between different versions of an application or mirror traffic for testing/debugging purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the sidecar may inject faulty HTTP responses (or delay them), load balance traffic between different versions of an application, or mirror traffic for testing/debugging purposes.
```

Nit: I just get confused about and / or in big sentences.

export RELEASE=v0.43.0
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/releases/download/${RELEASE}/kubevirt-operator.yaml

> kubectl apply -f https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt/releases/download/${RELEASE}/kubevirt-cr.yaml

Reviewer: I use zsh, and as such, I had to enclose the URLs in double-quotes. Consider this.

Author: Thanks, added

EOF
```

Wait for the `istio-vmi` to be ready:
```bash
kubectl wait --for=condition=ready --timeout=180s pod -l app=istio-vmi
```

After creating the VMIs, the corresponding virt-launcher pods should have 3 ready containers, as shown in the snippet below:
```bash
kubectl get pods
NAME                             READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
virt-launcher-istio-vmi-XYZ      3/3     Running   0          4m13s
virt-launcher-cirros-vmi-XYZ     3/3     Running   0          2m21s
```

`Istioctl proxy-status` should report that the sidecar proxies running inside the virt-launcher pods have synced with Istio control plane:

```bash
istioctl proxy-status
NAME                                                   CDS        LDS        EDS        RDS          ISTIOD                      VERSION
virt-launcher-cirros-vmi-9f765.default                 SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       istiod-7d96484d6b-5d79g     1.10.0

> virt-launcher-istio-vmi-99t8t.default                  SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       istiod-7d96484d6b-nk4cd     1.10.0

Reviewer: For whatever reason, I get more that these 2: 

```bash
$ istioctl proxy-status
NAME                                                   CDS        LDS        EDS        RDS          ISTIOD                      VERSION
istio-egressgateway-55d4df6c6b-qcllf.istio-system      SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     NOT SENT     istiod-7d96484d6b-b74pd     1.10.0
istio-ingressgateway-69dc4765b4-pdn68.istio-system     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     NOT SENT     istiod-7d96484d6b-b74pd     1.10.0
virt-launcher-cirros-vmi-r77sn.default                 SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       istiod-7d96484d6b-b74pd     1.10.0
virt-launcher-istio-vmi-jgk59.default                  SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED     SYNCED       istiod-7d96484d6b-b74pd     1.10.0

```

Author: I have ommited the gateways on purpose to not bloat the output with default istio resources.
If you think it may cause confusion, I would include them

Reviewer: I would be OK with a tiny note indicating that you're only showing the relevant entities. 

Does that make sense ?

Author: Sure, added a note
